2013-03-17
----------

This is the first entry in the Noah Birnel blog.
I've spent a lot of time thinking about starting this blog,
and what I wanted to put in it. 
I've put a little less time researching and setting up the 
software to host it.

Now, I don't have anything to say.

This is intended to be a record of my thoughts on programming,
cooking, gardening, playing and listening to music, raising my
daughter, and whatever else comes to mind.
I have no idea what direction it will take.

We'll see what I have to add in the next few days.

2013-03-18 - re-install unpleasantness
----------

I hosed my OpenSuse box at work last week. 
While I was under the desk fiddling with another box, I kicked the UPS and 
knocked out the power.
When I rebooted, OpenSuse couldn't get out of single-user mode. 
Rather than try to diagnose the stupid thing,
I figured I'd install something I'm a little more comfortable with.
I use this box mostly as a thin-client to remote into the 25 different Windows
machines I have to deal with at work,
so it doesn't matter much what the OS is.

First, I tried FreeBSD, which is what I use at home.
FreeBSD's installer couldn't acquire a DHCP lease.

Second, I tried Debian, which I used to use at home.
Debian's installer couldn't cope with my archaic graphics card.

Third, I tried OpenBSD, which I haven't used, but figured would be FreeBSD-ish.
OpenBSD installed just fine. 
I typed `startx`, and - gray checkbox screen, cursor... then back to the shell.
`Render error detected`... blah blah blah.
A quick google gave nothing that seemed immediately applicable, 
and I finally gave up. 
Time to go back to OpenSuse,
which I at least knew from experience would install and run X on 
this ten-year-old box.

Here is the record of the things I had to do to get OpenSuse running the
way I want / had it before.
This is less than it was the first time around,
since I had an unharmed home directory with all of my
'OpenSuse stop doing that!' dotfile kludges.

The install went ok.
After install, the first thing I went to do was build dwm (my window manager) 
which I had already sitting with a nice config in my home directory.
I typed `make`, and got an error message. 
OpenSuse doesn't have make installed by default. 
So I ran `yast` to install it.
(Which is `/sbin/yast2`, by the way.)

    An error occurred during repository initialization.
    repo-update-non-oss:
    http://download.opensuse.org/update/12.3-non-oss/ 
    repo-update-non-oss|http://download.opensuse.org/update/1
    2.3-non-oss/] Repository is not cached

Even though the installer could figure out network cards for purposes of
installing - 
the actual installed OS needs help.

OK, I fixed that through yast. 
Now let's install make, and while we're at it - yes, we have no compiler.
Throw in gcc, the one lib I need for dwm, and we're ready to start.

Built dwm and dmenu, and got myself a sane window manager. 
Now I could work a little more comfortably, and install my other needs.
Back to yast for tmux, git, synergy, and rdesktop 
- the last being the main thing I want this computer for.

Rdesktop was no problem, 
but synergy is not in the repos at all.
That's OK, because I had previously compiled it in my home directory.
Unfortunately I had no notes on how to get it up and running, 
and synergy's `README` just points me to a wiki which no longer exists.
So I ran `synergyc --help`,
which sensibly enough told me to run it with the server's hostname.
I did this,
and the server complained that an unknown host was attempting to attach.
I checked `synergy.sgc` on server,
and it matched what `$PS1` says on the OpenSuse box 
- but wait! `hostname` gives something different!
Or rather, 
the same thing,
but with the domain name appended. 
I updated `synergy.sgc` on the synergy host,
restarted syngerys.exe,
and now I can smoothly carry my pointer from the Windows 7 desktop
to the OpenSuse desktop.

Finally,
I made sure my screen-locker was working 
(gotta have that SOC2 compliance!).
I had slock in `$HOME/src`,
but I didn't see xautolock,
and vaguely remembered using yast to get it.
Yast, confusingly, called this xautolck.
But, it was the right program.

Finally,
I attempted to run `visudo` so sudo would stop asking me for the root password.
Surprise! 
OpenSuse ships without visudo. 
So I did  `sudo vim /etc/sudoers` with the root password.
However,
sudo is *still* asking me for the root password.
At this point, 
more urgent work beckoned, 
and I had to leave off reading the man page to discover
how OpenSuse has modified good old sudo.
It'll have to wait for tomorrow.

And that, my friends, was *re*-installing OpenSuse. 
Maybe fixing the original problem would have been quicker after all.

[edit 2013-03-19]

Ok, google to the rescue again.
visudo was present after all, 
just not where I thought.
visudo is `/usr/sbin/visudo`.

    sudo /usr/sbin/usermod -G wheel {username}
    sudo /usr/sbin/visudo

Comment out `Defaults targetpw` and `ALL` etc.
(This, I hadn't noticed or been aware of.)
Uncomment `%wheel` line.
(This, I did yesterday.)
And while we're at it,
`s/^Defaults !insults/Defaults insults/`

And *now* sudo works the way it ought to.

2013-03-20 an associative array in shell (sort of)
----------

I had a little "most recent" script for this site almost complete
when I realized I wanted an associative array - 
a hash in perl parlance.
As it stood, 
I had:

    for i in 1 7 28; do
        echo "Last $i days:"
        (find files older than $i days)
    done

Which is obviously wrong for `1 days`.
I thought about inserting

    case $i in
      1)
        echo "Last day:"
        ;;
      7)
        echo "Last week:"
        ;;
      etc
    esac

but this looked immediately wordy and annoying.
I considered rewriting in awk or perl,
but that would be a waste of 20 perfectly good lines of shell!

Finally I came up with simulating an associative array:

    for i in 1_day 7_week 28_month; do
        n=$(echo $i | sed 's/^\([1-9][0-9]*\)_.*/\1/')
        interval="$(echo $i | sed 's/^[1-9][0-9]*_//')"
        echo "Last $interval:"
        (find files older than $n days)
    done

A little gross, admittedly,
but it ties the number of days and the name together.

2013-03-27 installing PC-BSD
----------------------------

I got a nicer box to run \*nix on at work.
Time to try out PC-BSD.

The install was easy and smooth.
There were no DHCP or X problems, 
and it has a 'developer' option, 
so I got git, rdesktop, gcc, etc right out of the box.

All I had to do was:

* `su` and `visudo`
* `chpass -s noah` to make my shell `/usr/local/bin/bash`
* No group adding, because I was already in `operator` and `wheel` groups.
* `sudo portsnap fetch`
* `sudo portsnap extract`
* `git pull` my [dotfiles](https://github.com/nbirnel/dotfiles)
* `git clone` my dwm config and rdp scripts
* install dwm, synergy, slock, and tmux from `/usr/ports`
* change the hostname
* allow sshd and disallow gdm in `etc/rc.conf`
* google around for "xorg nvidia dual head" and edit `/etc/X11/xorg.conf`
  for my new (that is, 5 year old) two-output video card.

This might be the smoothest install of any os I've ever had.

[edit 2013-03-29]

Ok, a wee bit of trouble.
I couldn't get ssh to work, in or out.
`sshd` was running, and responding on localhost, 
and our sysad denied blocking anything on the internal network.
Turns out PC-BSD ships with `pf_enable="YES"` in `/etc/rc.conf`.
Turned that off, and IPv6 while I was in there, and ssh is good.

I still haven't figured out how to mount all the cifs shares
(it is not simply a matter of copying over my old `fstab` lines),
but that can wait for another day.

